---
permalink: /about/
title: ""
share: true
layout: splash
---

![](/assets/images/Thumbnails/Home/ChristyHeadshotBW.png){: .align-left}

Christine is an urban designer, teacher, researcher and illustrator with a
passion for building engaging, ecologically-responsible and beautiful
communities.

She works creatively with developers, citizen groups, researchers
and students to transform landscapes, buildings, neighbourhoods and cities into
engaging, beautiful and sustainable places. Her unique visual approach to
design brings diverse people together and combines community-based planning
techniques with socio-ecological design strategies.

Christine has designed at a variety of scales - a new vision for an abandoned
warehouse in a small town, detailed designs and planting plans for civic
gardens and parks, master plans for residential developments and campuses, and
visions for revitalizing core urban areas. Research projects have focused on
innovative planning techniques, landscape perception, children’s play
experiences, and place-making.

Recently she added LEGO to her communication toolkit to create an Eco-City
exhibition.  To each new project, Christine combines a researcher’s curiosity
with a visionary capacity that stems from a 20+ year career as architectural
illustrator.

# Background

Christine graduated from the University of Waterloo in 1991 with a degree in
Architecture. Over the next two decades, she ran a busy architectural
illustration practice in Owen Sound, Ontario, with local and international
clients. She and her husband Ralph raised three sons, learned to garden, and
undertook renovation projects that were always more complex than they first
seemed.

Christine became increasingly involved in volunteer work to strengthen citizen
engagement, develop community resilience, and build sustainable landscapes,
leading to an illustrated newspaper column. Wishing to steer both advocacy
efforts and professional development to sustainable community design, she
obtained a Master of Planning from the University of Guelph in 2010, with a
research focus on compact urban development.

She pursued her doctorate between 2010 and 2017, with a research focus on
landscape perceptions, and processes that strengthen community involvement in
regional planning for wind energy. At this time, Christine began to assist in
design studios, and teach courses in sustainability, landscape architecture
history, and place-making.

In 2017 she and her husband relocated to Vejle, Denmark so he could work for
LEGO, his dream job. Christine has now established a design practice. 
