---
permalink: "/Research/LandscapeResearch/"
title: "Landscape Preferences Using Q-Method"
header:
  overlay_image: "assets/images/Banners/Blue/LandscapeResearchBanner.jpg"
#toc: true
#toc_sticky: true
layout: splash

gallery_one:
  - image_path: /assets/images/Thumbnails/Research/LandscapeResearch/Materials.jpg
    url: /assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/Materials.jpg
    title: "Materials for Visual Q-Method research"
  - image_path: /assets/images/Thumbnails/Research/LandscapeResearch/Participant.jpg
    url: /assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/Participant.jpg
    title: "Participant performing a Visual Q-Sort"

gallery_two:
  - image_path: /assets/images/Thumbnails/Research/LandscapeResearch/OldBarn.jpg
    url: /assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/OldBarn.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/Thumbnails/Research/LandscapeResearch/Farmhouse.jpg
    url: /assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/Farmhouse.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/Thumbnails/Research/LandscapeResearch/Field.jpg
    url: /assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/Field.jpg

---

Q-method is an innovative research technique that provides quantitative and
qualitative information about the subjective values of participants. Usually
studies are designed to explore how people “talk about” an issue, but the
method can also support research using visual information – how people “see” a
subject.

As part of her doctoral research, Christine developed an innovative Visual
Q-methodology technique to elicit participants’ subjective landscape
preferences and to ascertain how participants value landscape character and
beauty. This study was undertaken to better understand subjective opinions, and
to determine whether groups of people hold common values.

{% include gallery id ="gallery_one" layout="half" %}

Thirty-five watercolour paintings were created by reviewing and synthesizing an
extensive collection of imagery that was gathered by observing landscape
imagery valued by citizens in the case study area; this consisted of artwork,
photography, advertising material or online reproductions of landscapes that
were created, collected, displayed or shared by residents. A diverse group of
82 participants ranked the images in order of preference (most prefer to least
prefer) in a Q-sort pyramid.

# Results

Four key patterns or viewpoints emerged from analysis of the results.
Interpretation of these unique patterns provided a window to understand
divergent ways that people see the same landscape. In Q-methodology research it
is common to name the factors to represent the particular points of view that a
number of participants share.

## Factor 1: The Naturalist

![](/assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/TheNaturalist.jpg)
 
The Naturalist represents the most common value orientation found
among participants in the study. Most preferred are natural landscapes, where
nature is perceived as dominant and powerful, and the influence of humans is
least visible. The least preferred landscapes show large-scale human
intervention, such as industrial agriculture, road infrastructure, and energy
infrastructure. 

## Factor 2: The Gardener

![](/assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/TheGardener.jpg)

The Gardener corresponds with a view of the landscape as both nature and a home
for humans. Preferred landscapes reveal human effort to work with nature to
shape and alter the contours of the land, but also to be shaped by nature and
to adapt to its forms in a symbiotic relationship. Preferred landscape patterns
are fine grained and have a balance of human and natural elements. 

## Factor 3: The Cultivator

![](/assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/TheCultivator.jpg)

The Cultivator prefers farming landscapes with open landscapes. Historic and
modern agricultural traditions are equally embraced as they represent the
bounty and harvest. Cultivators value a high level of involvement in the
building and management of landscapes. 

## Factor 4: The Builder

![](/assets/images/Originals/Research/LandscapeResearch/TheBuilder.jpg)

The Builder appreciates landscapes that display strength and evidence of human
creativity, natural forces, or a combination of both. These participants prefer
constructed landscapes with evidence of progress and vitality. 

Analysis of the results, including the comments provided by participants during
interviews, showed that cultural (learned) and biological (innate) processes
influence perceptions of landscape. While new information may sway some
landscape preferences, other environmental responses are very deeply rooted and
may stem from evolutionary impulses. Understanding where preferences are rooted
helps to explain why some landscape changes are resisted while others are
readily adapted to

# Preferences for Wind Energy Landscapes

A secondary Q-method study explored how people view future scenarios of wind
energy infrastructure. Paintings from the landscape character study were
adjusted digitally to show various siting alternatives. Results found three key
viewpoints among participants. 
   
{% include gallery id ="gallery_two" %}

# Other Applications of Q-Method

Q-method is an innovative research technique that provides quantitative and
qualitative information about the subjective values of participants. Usually
studies are designed to explore how people “talk about” an issue, but the
method can also support research using visual information – how people “see” a
subject.

Funding for this research was provided by OMAFRA. A report on the outcomes of
this research can be found
[here](/assets/documents/pdfs/A Community-Based Planning Model for Wind Energy Development.pdf)

Check out more examples of Christine’s research that uses Q-method:

 * [Q-Method Overview](/Research/QMethodOverview/)

